@node Installing Pintos
@appendix Installing Pintos

This chapter explains how to install a Pintos development environment on your own machine, rather than in the VM provided. Much of the process is the same, excepting the possible need to resolve required dependencies.

The Pintos development environment is targeted at Unix-like systems.  It has been most extensively tested on GNU/Linux, in particular the Debian and Ubuntu distributions, and Solaris.  It is not designed to install under any form of Windows.

Prerequisites for installing a Pintos development environment include
the following, on top of standard Unix utilities:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Required: @uref{http://gcc.gnu.org/, GCC}.  Version 4.0 or later is
preferred.  Version 3.3 or later should work.  If the host machine has
an 80@var{x}86 processor, then GCC should be available as @command{gcc};
otherwise, an 80@var{x}86 cross-compiler should be available as
@command{i386-elf-gcc}.  A sample set of commands for installing GCC
3.3.6 as a cross-compiler are included in
@file{src/@/misc/@/gcc-3.3.6-cross-howto}.

@item
Required: @uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/binutils/, GNU binutils}.
Pintos uses @command{addr2line}, @command{ar}, @command{ld},
@command{objcopy}, and @command{ranlib}.  If the host machine is not an
80@var{x}86, versions targeting 80@var{x}86 should be available with an
@samp{i386-elf-} prefix.

@item
Required: @uref{http://www.perl.org, Perl}.  Version 5.8.0 or later is
preferred.  Version 5.6.1 or later should work.

@item
Required: @uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/make/, GNU make}, version
3.80 or later.

@item
Recommended: @uref{http://fabrice.bellard.free.fr/qemu/, QEMU}, version
0.11.0 or later.  If QEMU is not available, Bochs can be used, but its
slowness is frustrating.

@item
Recommended: @uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/, GDB}.  GDB is
helpful in debugging (@pxref{GDB}).  If the host machine is not an
80@var{x}86, a version of GDB targeting 80@var{x}86 should be available
as @samp{i386-elf-gdb}.

@item
Recommended: @uref{http://www.x.org/, X}.  Being able to use an X server
makes the virtual machine feel more like a physical machine, but it is
not strictly necessary.

@item
Optional: @uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/, Texinfo}, version
4.5 or later.  Texinfo is required to build the PDF version of the
documentation.

@item
Optional: @uref{http://www.tug.org/, @TeX{}}.  Also required to build
the PDF version of the documentation.

@item
Optional: @uref{http://www.vmware.com/, VMware Player}.  This is a
third platform that can also be used to test Pintos.
@end itemize

Once these prerequisites are available, follow these instructions to
install Pintos:

@enumerate 1
@item
Get Pintos. Then install Bochs, compiling it from source using our script as described in the introduction. @xref{Introduction}.

@item
Install scripts from @file{src/utils}.  Copy @file{backtrace},
@file{pintos}, @file{pintos-gdb}, @file{pintos-mkdisk},
@file{pintos-set-cmdline}, and @file{Pintos.pm} into the default
@env{PATH}.

@item
Compile the remaining Pintos utilities by typing @command{make} in
@file{src/utils}.  Install @file{squish-pty} somewhere in @env{PATH}.
To support VMware Player, install @file{squish-unix}.
If your Perl is older than version 5.8.0, also install
@file{setitimer-helper}; otherwise, it is unneeded.

@item
Pintos should now be ready for use.  If you have the Pintos reference
solutions, which are provided only to faculty and their teaching
assistants, then you may test your installation by running @command{make
check} in the top-level @file{tests} directory.  The tests take between
20 minutes and 1 hour to run, depending on the speed of your hardware.

@item
Optional: Build the documentation, by running @command{make dist} in the
top-level @file{doc} directory.  This creates a @file{WWW} subdirectory
within @file{doc} that contains HTML and PDF versions of the
documentation, plus the design document templates and various hardware
specifications referenced by the documentation.  Building the PDF
version of the manual requires Texinfo and @TeX{} (see above).  You may
install @file{WWW} wherever you find most useful.

The @file{doc} directory is not included in the @file{.tar.gz}
distributed for Pintos.  It is in the Pintos CVS tree available via
@code{:pserver:anonymous@@footstool.stanford.edu:/var/lib/cvs}, in the
@code{pintos} module.  The CVS tree is @emph{not} the authoritative
source for Stanford course materials, which should be obtained from the
course website.
@end enumerate

