@c Local settings

@set coursenumber CSE 451
@set localpintoshttppath http://@/www.github.com/@/willscott/@/pintos
@set coursewebpage http://@/www.cs.washington.edu/@/451

@set courseserver @url{forkbomb.cs.washington.edu}

@clear recommendvnc
@clear recommendcygwin

@macro localmachines{}
The 451 ``officially supported'' Pintos development environment is
the support managed Fedora VM image.  Instructions for installation
of Pintos on this image are described @code{todo}
@end macro

@macro localpathsetup{}
Under @command{csh}, Stanford's login shell, you can do so
with this command:
@example
bash src/misc/setup-path.sh
@end example
@noindent
This will cause the src/utils directory to be added to your path.
@end macro

@macro localcrossbuild{}
Watch the commands executed during the build.  On the Linux machines,
the ordinary system tools are used.  On a SPARC machine, special build
tools are used, whose names begin with @samp{i386-elf-}, e.g.@:
@code{i386-elf-gcc}, @code{i386-elf-ld}.  These are ``cross-compiler''
tools.  That is, the build is running on a SPARC machine (called the
@dfn{host}), but the result will run on a simulated 80@var{x}86 machine
(called the @dfn{target}).  The @samp{i386-elf-@var{program}} tools are
specially built for this configuration.
@end macro

@macro localhonorcodepolicy{}
In the context of @value{coursenumber}, please refraining from 
reading any homework solutions available online or elsewhere.
Reading the source code for other operating system kernels,
such as Linux or FreeBSD, is allowed, but do not copy code from them
literally. Please cite code or other sources (stackoverflow, forums, etc.) that inspired your own solutions.

@end macro

@macro localcredits{}
@c none needed
@end macro

@macro localcvspolicy{}
Instead, we recommend integrating your team's changes early and often,
using a source code control system such as CVS .
This is less likely to produce surprises, because everyone can see
everyone else's code as it is written, instead of just when it is
finished.  These systems also make it possible to review changes and,
when a change introduces a bug, drop back to working versions of code.
@end macro

@macro localdevelopmenttools{}
@c Descriptions of additional, local development tools can be inserted here
@end macro
